# Project Proposal for Psych 254
## Josh Morris
### Paper: Shah, Shafir, & Mullainathan (2015)

My general research interest is financial decision making and I am currently working on a project that investigates factors that affect the extent to which a decision maker is sensitive to reference prices and transaction utility when making a purchase decision. This paper investigates how poverty affects decision making biases, and studies 1b-1d specifically investigates how sensitive low income (compared with other income demographics) individuls are to the bias of relying on transcation utility (Thaler's 'Beer on the Beach' problem). I think this is a really simple paradigm that I could employ (with other causal factors) in my future research.

In terms of stimuli and procedures, the authors have conveniently uploaded all their materials and data online. For studies 1b-1d, this is extremely brief - it is simply the text of the vignette that participants read and the question that they answer. There is no manipulation - participants simply read the vignette, repsond to the question, and then fill out demographics. The key demographic is income - and the authors chose to use an ordinal scale (e.g. 'Between 70,000 and 79,999') instead of an interval scale.

The main challenges will clearly be data collection costs. Although the amount of time required by each partiipant will be low (I estimate about 1 minute), the authors collected a lot of data across two diffeent samples. In Study 1b and 1c, the authors collected data from mTurk with 151 and 604 participants, respectively. For our replication purposes, we can run one mTurk study as study 1c was simply a replication of study 1b with a larger sample. The tricky part will be replicating study 1d. In Study 1d, the authors collected data from 2,015 participants on the SSI panel of U.S. respondents. We may want to focus on just the mTurk sample - which should replicate the authors' results from studies 1b and 1c.
